# AI Case Study of Scale

## Overview and Origin
![Scale Logo](/scaleai_logo.jpeg)    
Scale  
https://scale.com/   

**When was the company incorporated?***

Scale was founded in 2016 and is headquartered in San Francisco, California

**Who are the founders of the company?**

Scale was founded by Alexandr Wang and Lucy Guo.  Alexandr was only 19 and studying at MIT before founding the
company.  Lucy Guo and Alexandr met while both were  working at Quora, a question and answer website.

**How did the idea for the company (or project) come about?**

In the early days of deep learning, Alexandr noticed he used the same algorithm for face emotions and whether or not his food is
missing in the fridge.  Nothing changed, the code and algorithms was the same, only the data was changing the
performance of the algorithm.  

He asked himself what the building blocks would be that would change the technology, and he decided data was the major
component that would drive AI.

The earliest use case Scale was trying to solve autonomous vehicles and enabling self driving.  Self-driving Cars
needed  to identify and understand the environment around them.  The key differentiator was using labeled high quality
data that powered algorithms.

**How is the company funded? How much funding have they received?**

The company was founded after Alexandr after his time as a developer at Quora and studying at MIT.  He dropped out of
MIT and received an initial investment from Y-Combinator.  To date, Scale has received $603 million in investment
capital and is valued at $7.3 Billion at the time of this writing.

## Business Activities

**What specific problem is the company or project trying to solve?**

The unique challenge Scale is solving is to increase the amount of high quality data available to train AI models. 
They are focusing on solving this problem through the labeling of data through a combination of human feedback as well
as algorithmic solutions.  The company currently focuses on annotating text, image, video, active and passive sonar,,
and LiDAR. 


**Who is the company's intended customer? Is there any information about the market size of this set of customers?**

Scale’s intended customer is any business or organization that requires high quality labeled data to train or improve
their machine learning models.  This includes organizations in various sectors such as e-commerce, finance,
government, autonomous vehicles, robotics, generative AI, and more.  

As a result of the wide breadth of customers that Scale can impact, it is difficult to pinpoint a market size for the
set of customers, but in this case it would be in the order of Billions.


**What solution does this company offer that their competitors do not or cannot offer? (What is the unfair advantage
they utilize?)**

Scale offers high quality data labeling for large data sets at a cost effective price.  It also allows for scalability
of large data models and allow companies to scale up or down as needed.

One of the key advantages that Scale provides is high quality reinforcement learning from human feedback {RLHF) in
their models alongside large language models (LLM)  to better label data.

In addition to all of this, Scale has formed some meaningful partnerships with some of the world’s biggest companies. 
This lead time allows them to understand the market better than a competitor entering the market. 

**Which technologies are they currently using, and how are they implementing them?**

Scale’s tech stack includes the following technologies.
Javascript
Python
Node.js
React
Amazon Web Services
Pytorch
Tensorflow
Typescript
Node
React
Next.js
MongoDB

## Landscape

**What field is the company in?**

Scale is in the AI and machine learning field with a heavy focus on data labeling.

**What have been the major trends and innovations of this field over the last 5&ndash;10 years?**

The AI and machine learning field is evolving rapidly.  In the last 5 years we have seen the emergence of large
language models, natural language processing, neural networks, generative AI for images, video, and audio, as well as
advances in robotics, financial modeling, autonomous vehicles, vision, speech recognition.  

The trend is towards allowing companies and individuals to be able to leverage the power of AI to accomplish more
tasks more efficiently, with more context, and to advance technology and business sectors more rapidly.

**What are the other major companies in this field?**

Some of Scales competitors include Labelbox, based out of the Bay Area and backed by Andreessen Horowitz and Kleiner
Perkins.  Another competitor DataLoop is based out of Tel-Aviv and has raised over $11 million  when it comes to
offering data labeling services for AI.


## Results

**What has been the business impact of this company so far?**

With a valuation of $7.3 Billion and some of the world’s top companies as customers, Scale has found product market
fit and proved that their product is a need in the field of AI.  

So far, Scale has been able to partner with Open AI, Meta, Microsoft, Toyota, GM, Etsy, Instacart, Pinterest, and more
to help train and develop AI and ML technologies with their data labeling system.  These companies are some of the
companies at the forefront of their industries and Scale is an enabler for them to continue to serve their customer
base by advancing technology and time to market with actionable high quality data.


**What are some of the core metrics that companies in this field use to measure success? How is your company
performing based on these metrics?**

The core metrics available on Scale’s website show us that the number of annotations and types of data accurately
labeled is their measure of success.  At the time of this writing, they have had over 7.7 billion annotations run
through their system and have labeled over 1 billion 2D and 3D scenes.  

Number of annotations makes sense as a success metric, because the more data is labeled and high quality goes into the
algorithms being trained, the better results the customers will have.  For example, in a Wall Street Journal article,
iRobot, makers of the Roomba, had labeled over 2 million images using Scale AI’s platform


**How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same field?**

Currently, Scale is the leader in this field.  Other competitors like LabelBox are also working with large scale
companies and providing additional services like allowing their models to be used by startups or for free.  Labelbox
also touts the fact that they are able to have lower costs than Scale and provide a bundled solution and ecosystem.

## Recommendations

**If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer?**

If I were to advise the company, I would suggest two products that could benefit its business.  

The first is the ability to bundle software that allows customers to use the platform at little to no cost.  This
would allow smaller companies and startups to get familiar with the platform and eventually become a customer.  It
also democratizes the labeling system and allows for smaller more agile companies to leverage AI and ML to further the
industry.  

The second would be a labeling service that focuses on diversity within the training models powering AI for
organizations and government.  With so many models being trained on data that is currently available, the need to have
the systems accurately depict the true nature of diverse cultures and perspectives accurately is critical to the
advancement of the technology.

**Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?**

Scale would benefit from this by potentially discovering new industries, businesses, or revenue streams that they
haven't unlocked before.  The system could be limited to a certain amount of credits per month so that users can get
value from the service and determine if they should upgrade to a paid version.

In terms of diversity, Scale would benefit from already being a first in class product that can accurately provide
labeled training data for AI for diverse cultures and backgrounds.

**What technologies would this additional product or service utilize?**

For the ability to offer new product offerings, I think there would only need to be the inclusion of self service
payment systems into Scale that would allow users to subscribe to a tier of membership.  The enterprise product would
still function as it does today.

For the diversity product, this would require potentially having the data or models labeled by local experts in the
countries of origin for the images or data that is being tagged.

**Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?**
These technologies are appropriate for the solution I am proposing because in the first case, the underlying
technology of Scale would not change drastically, only how it is presented to the user.  

In the second case, local experts would be more knowledgeable of certain nuances within that region or culture that is
being tagged and labeled, leading to hyper localized data labeling, making the models highly efficient.  

## Sources
https://www.forbes.com/profile/lucy-guo/?sh=61d4deed51b9  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gDMemWgEJak  
https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenli1/2019/12/22/scale-ai-growth-story/?sh=58264836f4a1  
https://stackshare.io/scale-ai/scale  
https://ai100.stanford.edu/gathering-strength-gathering-storms-one-hundred-year-study-artificial-intelligence-ai100-2021-study  
https://labelbox.com/  
https://dataloop.ai/  
https://www.wsj.com/articles/scale-ais-rapid-growth-reflects-widening-demand-for-smart-software-11626082201  
https://labelbox.com/compare/labelbox-vs-scale/  
https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/15/us/diversity-artificial-intelligence-bias-reaj/index.html  
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2024/02/22/google-gemini-ai-image-generation-pause/  


